Welcome to Data Visualization
with advanced Excel,
the third course in
the data analysis and
presentation skills,
the PWC Approach Specialization.
If you were with us for
the first or second course,
you may remember me.
I'm Alex Mannella,
I'm going to get you
started and talk about
how this course will run.
I'll be back at the end of
the course to wrap things up.
In this course, we're
going to focus on
expanding your
analytical skills by
using Excel to help you answer
questions and tell
a story with your data.
Here's something I would
like you to keep in mind.
In this course, we are
using Excel to help you
develop your data
visualization skills.
We've chosen the
software tool because it
is widely available
to most of you.
There are many tools
that we use to visualize
data for our clients every day,
tools that provide
a wide variety of functionality.
It's always important to choose
the tool that fits the needs
of your client and the analysis
you'll be conducting.
Week one is all about linking
data and data models,
you are going to learn
about the components of
data sets and the
relational database model.
We'll show you how to
build these databases and
data models within
Excel using PowerPivot.
In week two, we'll show you
how you can use data to perform
different types of scenario
and simulation analyses,
to limit modeling risk and move
away from single point analytics.
You'll have the opportunity to
practice these skills in Excel,
by levering some of
Excel's built-in tools
including solver, data tables,
the scenario manager,
and Goal seek.
In week three. Once you are
comfortable with
these new advanced skill sets,
we'll show you how to visualize
the data, tell a story,
and explore the data by reviewing
core principles of data
visualization and dashboarding.
Finally, in week four.
You'll get a chance
to use Excel to build
complex graphs and
Power View reports,
and then start to
combine them into
dynamic dashboards using
tools such as form control,
slicers, and
conditional formatting.
At the end of the course,
I'll be back to give a recap of
what you learned and
share my perspective.
Thanks again for joining us.